# JAMB Commerce Past Questions - 2023

## Questions

**1.** In the permanent storage device, DASD means
   A) Data Access Storage Device
   B) Data Access Systems Device
   C) Direct Access Systems Device
   D) Direct Access Storage Device.
   **Answer: D**

**2.** Which of these companies offers after-sales services?
   A) IV
   B) Ill
   C) II
   D) I
   **Answer: C**

**3.** Secondary production has to do with changing the
   A) shape of raw materials through construction operations
   B) physical form of raw materials into finished goods
   C) utility of raw materials by an engineering process
   D) nature of raw materials through manufacturing processes.
   **Answer: B**

**4.** Recognized members of the Stock Exchange who buy and sell securities on their own behalf are known as
   A) bolls
   B) jobbers
   C) brokers
   D) stags.
   **Answer: C**

**5.** One of he facilities enjoyed by a current account holder is
   A) a dividend  
   B) a bonus
   C) an overdraft 
   D) interest on deposits
   **Answer: C**

**6.** The process whereby a firm directs its marketing efforts towards a single market by the use of a particular marketing mix is referred to as
   A) concentration segmentation
   B) marketing concept
   C) consumer orientation
   D) market penetration
   **Answer: D**

**7.** An important principle of a good organizational structure is
   A) ideal standard
   B) span of control
   C) clarity of mission
   D) adequacy of resources.
   **Answer: B**

**8.** The most important advantage of privatization is the enhancement of
   A) liquidity 
   B) accountability
   C) profitability  
   D) efficiency.
   **Answer: D**

**9.** The abbreviated phrase E & OE is usually printed on
   A) an invoice
   B) a cheque
   C) a delivery note
   D) a debit note
   **Answer: A**

**10.** The sale of foreign investment and gold reserves can be used to
   A) correct adverse balance of trade
   B) increase invisible imports
   C) correct adverse balance of payments
   D) correct a budget deficit.
   **Answer: A**

**11.** A factor is a business environment which increases the rate of product obsolescence is
   A) technology 
   B) political
   C) legal 
   D) economic
   **Answer: A**

**12.** The most important right of the employee in discharging his duties to the employer is the right to
   A) regular emoluments  
   B) job security 
   C) working facilities  
   D) annual leave. 
   **Answer: B**

**13.** The setting of objectives for an organization and determining how to accomplish them is
   A) social responsibility  
   B) planning  
   C) organizing
   D)  decision-making.
   **Answer: B**

**14.** What is G in the above equation?
   A) Sales returns
   B) Carriage inwards
   C) Purchases
   D) Sales
   **Answer: C**

**15.** Which of the middlemen in the channel of distribution has title to the goods he distributes?
   A) The merchant wholesaler 
   B) The agent
   C) the limited wholesaler 
   D) The retailer
   **Answer: A**

**16.** Securities that entitle the investor to coupon rates are
   A) bonds 
   B) equities 
   C) warrants 
   D) treasury bills
   **Answer: B**

**17.** One of the obligations of an employer to an employee is to
   A) Indemnify  him against liabilities incurred on duty 
   B) award scholarship to his children 
   C) terminate his appointment  without prior notice
   D) indemnify him against injuries caused through negligence 
   **Answer: A**

**18.** A major function of a chamber of commerce is
   A)  increasing productivity
   B) promoting both home and foreign trade
   C) promoting trade in a particular line
   D)  maximizing profit.
   **Answer: B**

**19.** Petrol voucher is an example of a
   A) bank draft.
   B) legal tender.
   C) token money
   D) partial money.
   **Answer: D**

**20.** The financial instrument for borrowing in which the collateral is usually more than the amount borrowed is
   A) trust certificate
   B) detachable warrant
   C) mortgage bond
   D) convertible securities.
   **Answer: C**

**21.** Which of these companies are more engaged in public relations activities?
   A) I and II
   B) I and III
   C) II and IV
   D) Ill and IV.
   **Answer: B**

**22.** Law-making is an example of
   A) indirect service
   B) commercial occupation 
   C) direct service
   D) industrial occupation.
   **Answer: C**

**23.** The Organization of Petroleum Exporting Countries (OPEC) is an example of a
   A) cartel
   B) trust
   C) holding company
   D) consortium
   **Answer: A**

**24.** A document sent by a seller to inform a buyer about the prices of goods is the
   A) catalogue 
   B) price list
   C) credit note
   D) proforma invoice 
   **Answer: B**

**25.** The payment made periodically in respect of an insurance policy entered into is known as
   A) bond
   B) commission
   C) premium
   D) surrender value
   **Answer: C**

**26.** Which of the following does NOT appear on a cheque on presentation for payment?
   A) Amount in words and figures
   B) Date of withdrawal
   C) Name of the cashier
   D) Name of the payee
   **Answer: C**

**27.** The most important function of commerce is in
   A) enhancing business relationships 
   B) helping people to improve their profits 
   C) facilitating exchange among individuals and firms
   D) assisting trade through banking and insurance
   **Answer: C**

**28.** Which of the following is used for temporary storage of data on a computer?
   A) RAM.
   B) ROM.
   C) floppy disk.
   D) flash disk.
   **Answer: A**

**29.** A person who buys new issues with a view of reselling at a higher price in the near future is referred to as a
   A) bull 
   B) bear 
   C) dealer 
   D) stage
   **Answer: A**

**30.** The winding up of a firm by a resolution of its shareholders is an example of
   A) voluntary liquidation
   B) bankruptcy
   C) recession
   D) involuntary liquidation.
   **Answer: A**

**31.** Non-insurable risks include
   A) gambling 
   B) damage to property
   C) death
   D) marine 
   **Answer: A**

**32.** A source of short-term finance to companies is
   A) share capital
   B) debentures
   C) retained earnings
   D) corporate tax
   **Answer: C**

**33.** The durable capital of an enterprise which is used continuously for further production is called ___ capital.
   A) called up
   B) circulating
   C) fixed
   D) liquid
   **Answer: C**

**34.** In the transportation industry, dead freight is used to describe the
   A) cost paid for an empty space left in the ship
   B) charge for each day a performance was delayed
   C) persons that hire a ship for a specific purpose.
   D) cost of shipping a particular cargo for a specific voyage
   **Answer: A**

**35.** One of the factors of determining the volume of production is
   A) availability of forex
   B) availability of storage facilities.
   C) the location of the business.
   D) the number of skilled manpower.
   **Answer: B**

**36.** The ECOBANK is the initiative of
   A) some well-meaning Nigerian shareholders
   B) the Federal Government of  Nigeria
   C) West African states to foster trade
   D) the Lagos State Government to enhance capital mobilization.
   **Answer: C**

**37.** Second-tier securities Market differs from the first-tier securities Market in that the former is
   A) Highly restricted 
   B) regulated by the SEC
   C) regulated by the NIPC
   D) Less restricted 
   **Answer: A**

**38.** The comparison of a country’s visible and invisible exports and imports expressed in monetary term is
   A) balance of payment 
   B) terms of trade
   C) balance of trade
   D) terms of payment 
   **Answer: C**

**39.** Debentures differ from shares in that
   A) they are secured on the company’s assets
   B) ownership is open to the public
   C) they form part of the capital of the business
   D) rewards are usually paid out of profits.
   **Answer: C**

**40.** An agreement between two parties which will give rise to enforceable rights and obligation is known as
   A) a warrant
   B) a contract
   C) a consideration
   D) an offer
   **Answer: B**

