# JAMB Geography Past Questions - 2023

## Questions

**1.** A radio message sent from a location on Longitude 15°W at 7.00 a.m is received at another location at 2.00 p.m on the same day. What is the longitudinal position of the other location?
   A) 90°W
   B) 105°E
   C) 75°W
   D) 105°W
   E) 90°E
   **Answer: E**

**2.** Which of the following farming system is likely to give rise to nucleated settlements?
   A) Irrigation farming
   B) Subsistence farming
   C) Large-scale farming
   D) Grazing
   **Answer: C**

**3.** Commercial grape cultivation is associated with?
   A) cool temperature climate  
   B) monsoon regions  
   C) Mediterranean regions  
   D) Montane climate 
   **Answer: C**

**4.** A lines drawn on a maps to show places of equal rainfall is called
   A) Rainline 
   B) Isotope 
   C) Isotherm 
   D) Hydrotope 
   **Answer: B**

**5.** The scale of a map is the ratio between the
   A) distance over the land and the distance over the water 
   B) distance on the map and the distance on the globe 
   C) vertical and horizontal differences  
   D) distance on the map and that on the earth’s surface 
   **Answer: D**

**6.** “High uniform temperature and heavy well distributed rainfall throughout the year” described
   A) Equaterial rainforest climate  
   B) Mid altitude friendly environment  
   C) the zone of forest with a lot of agricultural potentials  
   D) the great Amazon basin including the Brazilian forests
   **Answer: A**

**7.** The equatorial circumference of the earth is
   A) 30,084 km
   B) 40,084 km
   C) 60,084 km
   D) 20,084km
   E) 50,084 km
   **Answer: B**

**8.** Precipitation include all the following except
   A) Fog
   B) Snow 
   C) Dust   
   D) Dew 
   **Answer: C**

**9.** Akosomo dam is on the River
   A) Niger  
   B) Nile  
   C) Congo  
   D) Volta
   **Answer: D**

**10.** Temperature is a measure of:
   A) The average hotness
   B) The average coolness
   C) The average heat. 
   D) The average emission.
   **Answer: C**

**11.** The rock type that is not likely to produce rich agricultural soil after weathering is
   A) Graphite
   B)  Limestone
   C) Volcanic rock
   D) Granitic rock
   **Answer: C**

**12.** Freetown is a:
   A) North African City 
   B) West African City 
   C) South African City 
   D) East African City 
   **Answer: B**

**13.** The following lakes have outlets to the sea Except lake
   A) Chad
   B) Michigan
   C) Victoria
   D) Michigan
   E) Athabasca
   **Answer: A**

**14.** The location of iron and steel industry at Ajaokuta in Nigeria is best explained by the presence of
   A) Limestone and coal  
   B) Iron ore   
   C) Bauxite  
   D) Manganese 
   **Answer: B**

**15.** Which of the following is correct?
   A) The Canaries current is cold and washes the coast of NE Africa  
   B) The Peruvian current is warm and washes the West coast of America  
   C) The Gulf stream is warm and moves north eastward on the Atlantic  
   D) The middle east current is warm and washes the coast of Saudi Arabia 
   **Answer: C**

**16.** Which of the following lakes owes its origin mainly to faulting
   A) Lake Victoria
   B) Lake Malawi
   C) Lake Superior
   D) Lake Kariba
   E) Lake Chad
   **Answer: B**

**17.** The most significant economic use of ocean water is for
   A) Bathing
   B) Recreation
   C) Drinking
   D) Transportaion
   **Answer: D**

**18.** Which of the following minerals is produced in Niger Republic?
   A) Uranium
   B) Crude oil
   C) Copper
   D) Tin and Columbite
   E) Steel
   **Answer: A**

**19.** Which of the following statements is not true for lines of latitudes?
   A) they range from 00 to 1800 North and South 
   B) they range from 00 to 900 North and South 
   C) They vary in D. they form parallel circles
   D) only one line is a great circle.
   **Answer: A**

**20.** Which of the following Nigerian towns is Not situated near a big river?
   A) Lokoja 
   B) Onitsha  
   C) Jebba  
   D) Abuja
   **Answer: D**

**21.** Campos is the name for the grassland in
   A) North America  
   B) South America  
   C) Africa  
   D) Asia 
   **Answer: B**

**22.** The representative fraction of 1:50,000 can be converted to the following
   A) one cm to 5km  
   B) one cm to 0.05km  
   C) one cm to 2km  
   D) one cm to 4km  
   **Answer: B**

**23.** The World largest Ocean is:
   A) Pacific Ocean 
   B) Atlantic Ocean 
   C) Indian Ocean 
   D) Arctic Ocean 
   **Answer: A**

**24.** Sandstone is metamorphosed into
   A) Slate  
   B) Quartzite  
   C) Schiest  
   D) Graphite 
   **Answer: B**

**25.** Which one of these is not a thermometric scale:
   A) Celsius  
   B) Kelvin  
   C) Fahrenheit  
   D) Octas 
   **Answer: D**

**26.** If a map at scale of 1:50,000 is reduced by half, what is the scale of the new map?
   A) 1:100,000
   B) 1:750,000
   C) 1:200,000
   D) 1:25,000
   **Answer: A**

**27.** Which of these is a textual classification of soils?
   A) Rounded, Irregular, and Flat
   B) Angular, Prismatic and Columnar
   C) Rounded, Pebbles, and Silt
   D) Angular, Sand, and Clay
   E) Sand, Loamy, and Clay
   **Answer: E**

**28.** Which of the following scales should show the greatest amount of detail on a map?
   A) 1:50,000  
   B) 1:500,000  
   C) 1:20,000  
   D) 1:200,000
   **Answer: C**

**29.** What is the Centigrade equivalent of 950 Fahrenheit?
   A) 1390C  
   B) 37.20C  
   C) 350C
   D) 3.60C
   **Answer: C**

**30.** Dominican Republic is in:
   A) Europe 
   B) Africa 
   C) America 
   D) Asia 
   **Answer: C**

**31.** Which of the following countries has a large number of people of Africa descent?
   A) England  
   B) Canada  
   C) Chile  
   D) Brazil 
   **Answer: D**

**32.** The ethnic groups in Nigeria are:
   A) More than 250  
   B) More than 150   
   C) More than 100   
   D) Less than 150 
   **Answer: A**

**33.** Wind erosion is most common in
   A) Rocky areas 
   B) Riverine areas 
   C) Arid areas 
   D) Humid areas 
   **Answer: C**

**34.** From a point, the whole circle bearing of a line is 135°. A clockwise angle from the line was measured to be 260° to another line. What is the whole circle bearing of the later line?
   A) 225°
   B) 35°
   C) 125°
   D) 395°
   E) 90°
   **Answer: C**

**35.** The World Longest Coastlines is in:
   A) Austria 
   B) England  
   C) United States of America 
   D) Canada 
   **Answer: D**

**36.** Which of the following is a major hindrance to H.E.P.
   A) Inadequate capital  
   B) Unavailability of good sites  
   C) Absence of domestic market  
   D) Sufficient volume of water  
   **Answer: D**

**37.** A type of landforms that is associated with large scale orogeny is a
   A) Fold mountain
   B) Residual mountain
   C) Block mountain
   D) Volcanic mountain
   E) OX-bow lake
   **Answer: A**

**38.** Sandstone is metamorphosed into
   A) Slate  
   B) Schist  
   C) graphite  
   D) Quartzite 
   **Answer: D**

**39.** A valley is a:
   A) Highland between hills
   B) Lowland between hills
   C) Rock between hills
   D) Highland between trees. 
   **Answer: B**

**40.** The bearing of Jata from Adaba is approximately
   *(See image: https://res.cloudinary.com/aloc-ng/image/upload/v1632582574/ALOC-Questions/Geography/UTME/JAMB%20GEOGRAPHY%202016_2020/Geography_2018_03_and_07_byo7zc.jpg)*
   A) 29°
   B) 17°
   C) 21°
   D) 25°
   E) 30°
   **Answer: C**

