# NECO English Past Questions - 2023

## Questions

**1.** According to the writer, some widely held beliefs about the common colds are
   A) inevitable
   B) irreconcilable
   C) fallacious
   D) societal
   **Answer: C**

**2.** The principal took exception to the <u>ignoble</u> role the teacher played in the matter?
   A) embarrassing
   B) honourable
   C) extraordinary
   D) dishonourable
   **Answer: B**

**3.** He maintained that Nigerians need a leader with an <u>iron fist</u>
   A) fist made of iron
   B) severe in treatment
   C) difiicult to please
   D) strong as iron
   **Answer: B**
   *Explanation: Iron fist is used in reference to the exercise of power in an oppressive or ruthless way. A particularly severe, forceful, and uncompromising manner of ruling/governing.*

**4.** The author uses the novel to portray some of the
   A) NGO's activities only
   B) environment conditions
   C) feelings of teachers only
   D) societal problems
   **Answer: D**

**5.** Choose the most appropriate option for the gap labelled 16.
   A) an essayist
   B) a freelancer
   C) composer
   D) columnist
   **Answer: D**
   *Explanation: columnist; a journalist contributing regularly to a newspaper or magazine.*

**6.** The party men <i>reveled</i> all night when the election results were announced.
   A) Celebrated
   B) mourned
   C) fought
   D) discussed
   **Answer: A**

**7.** The vice chancellor is riding the crest of the last quarter of his administration.
   A) The vice chancellor enjoys the acknowledgment of the success of his administration
   B) the vice chancellor does not enjoy the people's criticism of his administration
   C) the vice chancellor hopes to overcome soon the poor comments on the adinistration
   D) the vice chancellor does not talk of his success in office
   **Answer: A**
   *Explanation: This means to be experiencing a particularly joyous or successful period, situation, or event. ei, the vice chancellor is enjoying the successes of his administration.*

**8.** The crisis ended as suddenly as it began
   A) The crisis ha suddenly as it began
   B) The crisis will not end suddenly
   C) The crisis stopped almost immediately
   D) The crisis will stop immediately.
   **Answer: C**

**9.** Each of the houses…………
   A) have got
   B) Have
   C) has
   D) were given a new look.
   **Answer: C**

**10.** The rest of the boys admire Olu's <i>verve</i>
   A) intelligence
   B) work
   C) handsomeness
   D) energy.
   **Answer: D**

**11.** advertisement
   A) adVERtisement
   B) advertiseMENT
   C) adverTISEment
   D) ADvertisement.
   **Answer: A**

**12.** Either Buntu or you ........ to go
   A) was
   B) are
   C) has
   D) is
   **Answer: B**
   *Explanation: The rule of concord states an exception, that is when either or neither joins to subjects (one singular and the other plural)  the verb should be chosen by considering the nearer of the two subjects.

This means that if the second subject is plural the verb should be plural

'You' can take a plural form, therefore option B is the safest answer.*

**13.** Pick out the option with a different rhyme
   A) Roar
   B) Four
   C) Growl
   D) Bore
   **Answer: C**
   *Explanation: Only Growl has a different rhyme*

**14.** According to the writer, live performance provide a special excitement because they are
   A) interactive
   B) error-free and original
   C) educative
   D) stage-managed
   **Answer: A**

**15.** Vacancies in the company will be notified by .....
   A) Bulletin
   B) Publication
   C) Publicity
   D) advertisement
   **Answer: D**
   *Explanation: Apparently, advertisement is the most viable means by which a company publicize vacancy*

**16.** The man, as well as the woman ________ arrested
   A) have been
   B) has been
   C) is been
   D) are being
   **Answer: B**
   *Explanation: In the rule of concord, 'when words such as, as well as, alongside, together with, no less than etc are used, the verb that follows would be the same with the subject of the phrase or clause, that is, the noun or the pronoun that comes before the marker of accompaniment.

'The man' is a singular noun hence a singular verb is needed.

Note that 'arrested' can function as past tense or past participle but in this context, it is a past participle.

However, 'is' is a singular verb used in the present tense, 'has' is a singular used in the perfect tense, 'have' is a singular and plural verb used in the perfect tense and 'been' is used in the perfect tense.

Therefore, option B is the correct answer.*

**17.** When we looked up, we …….... the plane some miles away.
   A) site
   B) cited
   C) sited
   D) sighted
   **Answer: D**

**18.** As a student, Isa tied <u>communal</u> living for a few years.
   A) Private.
   B) Collective.
   C) General.
   D) Shared.
   **Answer: A**
   *Explanation: communal; shared by all members of a community; for common use.*

**19.** c<u>h</u>aracter
   A) unique
   B) charade
   C) arch
   D) church
   **Answer: A**

**20.** The officer ....that he was not supposed to talk to the press on the matter
   A) could have known
   B) shall know
   C) should have known
   D) will know
   **Answer: C**
   *Explanation: Use "I should have known ___" to talk about something that you made a mistake about, but now you think that the correct answer is obvious.*

**21.** It is important for university to be independent so that they can________
   A) attract funds from industries
   B) determine their goals
   C) be left to expand without any hindrances
   D) carry out effective research
   **Answer: C**
   *Explanation: In the passage, Paragraph one talks about the need for Universities to maintain a level of independence which enables Universities to thrive for intellectual pursuit. The writer also emphasizes the need for University autonomy. All these points out to the need to expand and function independently.

Option C is the correct answer.*

**22.** It is impossible to say whether ......Ola and her sister will be offered jobs by the firm.
   A) both
   B) either
   C) each
   D) neither
   **Answer: A**
   *Explanation: It is impossible to say whether both Ola and her sister will be offered jobs by the firm.

Both is used for emphasis to refer to two people or things, regarded and identified together.*

**23.** The permanent Secretary left his job under a <u>cloud</u>?
   A) on a cloudy day
   B) with a clear record
   C) in disgrace
   D) on a sunny day
   **Answer: B**

**24.** The move to expel the chairman was <i>sanctioned</i> by members of the party
   A) unleashed
   B) opposed
   C) supported
   D) initiated
   **Answer: C**

**25.** This question is from the novel The Last Days at Forcados High school.

Who was the best student in chemistry?
   A) Ansa
   B) Caro
   C) Nene
   D) Jimi
   **Answer: D**

**26.** Choose the option that has the same consonant as the one represented by the letter(s) underlined

<u>wh</u>o
   A) vehicle
   B) khaki
   C) rhyme
   D) hammer
   **Answer: D**
   *Explanation: Option D has the same consonant sound at the beginning of the word 'hammer'*

**27.** Epita<u>ph</u>.
   A) Pneumonia.
   B) Pseudo.
   C) Fan.
   D) Paper.
   **Answer: C**
   *Explanation: epitaph; /ˈɛpɪtɑːf,ˈɛpɪtaf/
fan; /fan/*

**28.** Choose the option that has the same consonant as the one represented by the letter(s) underlined

cla<u>sh</u>
   A) sharp
   B) cheap
   C) leisure
   D) school
   **Answer: A**
   *Explanation: Option A sharp has the same consonant at the beginning of the word*

**29.** Select the correct option for the space numbered 19 in the above passage
   A) house of representative
   B) judiciary
   C) national assembly
   D) executive council
   **Answer: A**

**30.** The village girl wore <u>sumptuous</u> clothes?
   A) faded looking
   B) cheap
   C) expensive
   D) loose-fitting
   **Answer: C**

**31.** <u>For all he cared: the game was as good as lost</u>
   A) He did not care if the game as lost
   B) He could not care less if the game was lost
   C) He was almost certain that the game would be lost
   D) He was afraid the game would be lost
   **Answer: C**
   *Explanation: For all I care' is used to say that a person is not worried/ uninterested about what happened to someone or something. 'As good as' indicates a comparison between 'the game' and 'a lost'

Option C is the best answer*

**32.** What is Ummi's Occupation?
   A) Trader
   B) Teacher
   C) Business woman
   D) Nurse
   **Answer: B**

**33.** 
   A) spot
   B) Law
   C) North
   D) naught
   **Answer: A**

**34.** She WORKS at the hospital.
   A) Who works at the hospital?
   B) Where does she work?
   C) Does she work at the hospital?
   D) What does she do at the hospital?
   **Answer: D**
   *Explanation: When answering emphatic stress questions, the option that does not have the "stressed word" becomes the correct answer.*

**35.** Nkechi was a <u>novice</u> when she was first employed?
   A) manager
   B) clerk
   C) supervisor
   D) professional
   **Answer: D**
   *Explanation: Novice; a person new to and inexperienced in a job or situation. 

Option D ''professional'' is the opposite in meaning*

**36.** He is really very mean. He…… not lend me the money I wanted.
   A) should
   B) could
   C) would
   D) won't
   **Answer: C**

**37.** The word alteration, as used in the passage, means
   A) Complication
   B) Multiplication
   C) Recognition
   D) Modification
   **Answer: D**
   *Explanation: Modification; a change made*

**38.** How long was Christopher Marlowe's literary life?
   A) 6 years
   B) 60 years
   C) 10 years
   D) 5 years
   **Answer: A**
   *Explanation: Self-explanatory.*

**39.** The matter was considered a <u>private</u> concern of the chairman to handle
   A) personal
   B) known
   C) public
   D) open
   **Answer: A**
   *Explanation: Private: belonging to or for the use of one particular person or group of people only.*

**40.** Choose the word that has a different stress pattern
   A) enlighten
   B) unwanted
   C) agitate
   D) Informal
   **Answer: C**
   *Explanation: The first syllable in 'agitate' is stressed, the other options are stressed differently*

**41.** We should try to help.....
   A) fortunates
   B) less fortunates
   C) the less fortunate
   D) this less fortunate
   **Answer: C**
   *Explanation: The less fortunate is grammatically correct. When we say ' the less fortunate,' we generally mean the poor rather. ie, we are referring to people in a group.*

**42.** The meeting was organised at _______ instance ?
   A) whom
   B) whose's
   C) whose
   D) whom's
   **Answer: C**
   *Explanation: Whose is the possessive form of the pronoun 'who'*

**43.** Lemoti ………..
   A) is gifted only not
   B) is only not gifted
   C) not only
   D) is only gifted
   **Answer: B**

**44.** Which of the following is true according to the passage?
   A) pots can be made quickly and correclty
   B) A pot thrown on a wheel is less likely to break
   C) the potter does not have to work hard if he uses the wheel
   D) anyone, with almost no training can run pots on a wheel
   **Answer: A**
   *Explanation: According to the passage, pots can be made quickly and correctly*

**45.** choose the option with the correct spelling from the options lettered A-E
   A) Interprete
   B) Interpret
   C) Inteprete
   D) Interprette
   **Answer: B**

**46.** My father has been away on a journey but my mother  says she …...he …… this Friday.
   A) expects/would arrive
   B) expected/win arrive
   C) expects/will arrive
   D) expected/would arrive
   **Answer: A**

**47.** The conference Centre caters for <u>transients</u> only?
   A) temporary guest
   B) professional
   C) permanent guests
   D) novices
   **Answer: A**

**48.** From the words lettered A to D, choose the word that rhymes with the given word.

Breeze
   A) stress
   B) chess
   C) free
   D) trees
   **Answer: D**
   *Explanation: The answer is ‘D’ because only ‘trees’ /tri:z/ whose plural form ‘-s’ becomes ‘-z’ rhymes with ‘breeze’ /bri:z/. The other options ‘stress’ and ‘chess’ have similar rhymes, leaving free /fri:/ alone*

**49.** Lami's father ........ as a gardener when he was young, but now he is a driver.
   A) had been working
   B) use to work
   C) has worked
   D) used to work
   **Answer: D**
   *Explanation: Lami's father used to work as a gardener when he was young, but now he is a driver.

Used to work; this is to say that something repeatedly happened in the past like*

**50.** 
   A) Secondment
   B) Orthopaedic
   C) oriental
   D) photographic
   **Answer: A**

**51.** He started his career as an ........ Teacher
   A) auxilary
   B) auxilliary
   C) auxiliary
   D) auxillary
   **Answer: C**
   *Explanation: Auxiliary being an adjective to the noun "teacher" indicates providing supplementary or extra help, support or assistance.*

**52.** From the passage, it can be inferred that since 1985
   A) more black males between the ages of 15 and 19 have been killing one another with guns
   B) more black males between the ages 15 and 19 have been getting killed by guns
   C) more white than black males have been getting killed by guns
   D) more black than white males have been killing one another with guns
   **Answer: A**

**53.** I visited Amina <i>umpteen times</i> in her college, but she never came to me
   A) often
   B) seldom
   C) twice
   D) occasionally.
   **Answer: A**

**54.** According to the passage, young men are
   A) violet when they have sexual desires
   B) active and restive untill they satisfy their sexual desires
   C) indignant and fickle in satisfying their sexual desires
   D) hot-tempered when they are hungry or thirsty
   **Answer: B**

**55.** There's a door at either end of the building.
   A) The building has two ends and two doors.
   B) The building has two ends, but only one doc'
   C) The building has two ends, but I do not know which of the two has a door.
   D) The building has many ends each with a door.
   **Answer: A**

**56.** ........ he switches on the light, the shadow disappears?
   A) Whenever
   B) Expect
   C) Since
   D) Until
   **Answer: A**
   *Explanation: Whenever he switches on the light, the shadow disappears?

Whenever; at whatever time; on whatever occasion (emphasizing a lack of restriction).*

**57.** It is African for a younger person to show……..to elders
   A) understanding
   B) indifference
   C) deference
   D) satisfaction
   **Answer: C**

**58.** An appropriate title for this passage is
   A) the quest for a lingua franca
   B) the emergence of a standard language
   C) the phenomenon of accent
   D) members of a language community
   **Answer: B**

**59.** The <u>exhibition</u> was an eye-opener to all
   A) style
   B) examination
   C) dispatch
   D) display
   **Answer: D**
   *Explanation: Exhibition means a public display of woks of art or items of interest*

**60.** The Governor rejected the bill and withheld his…….
   A) accent
   B) assent
   C) access
   D) ascent
   **Answer: B**
