# JAMB English Past Questions - 2023

## Questions

**1.** It is likely that the governor will exact his pound of flesh
   A) He will probably demand a hefty  bribe 
   B) He will probably engineer the assassination of his opponents 
   C) He will probably impose crushing new taxes
   D) He will probably demand for and get all that is due to him 
   **Answer: D**

**2.** The tax rebate was a <i>concession</i> given to the civil servants
   A) a donation 
   B)  an allowance
   C) an incentive  
   D) an emolument. 
   **Answer: B**

**3.** His wife was badly injured in the fracas, but I think  she will pull
   A) up  
   B) over 
   C) through 
   D) back
   **Answer: C**

**4.** We saw Ifueko ____________ an egg on the wall
   A) smashed
   B) smash
   C) smashing
   D) smashes
   **Answer: B**
   *Explanation: ‘Smash’ is the correct answer because the action conveyed is a single action.

In reported statements, writers/ speakers should retain the present tense.*

**5.** What a ________! the more you look, the less you see
   A) wonder
   B) miracle
   C) challenge
   D) paradox
   **Answer: D**
   *Explanation: The more you look, the less you see is contradictory and that is a paradox.*

**6.** Since its <u>inception</u> 1983, the newspaper has attracted thousands of readers?
   A) renaissance
   B) coming
   C) commencement
   D) publication
   **Answer: C**
   *Explanation: Inception; the commencement or starting point of something*

**7.** The point you have made is quite <i>apt</i>
   A) illogical 
   B) helpful 
   C) irrelevant 
   D) insensitive
   **Answer: C**

**8.** Rather than make <u>derogatory<u/> remarks about the host, a guest should make ________ ones
   A) polite
   B) complimentary
   C) interesting
   D) honest
   **Answer: B**
   *Explanation: Derogatory implies 'to lessen one's value'. However, complimentary is an expression of praise.*

**9.** Who were the two people Seyi lawal and Jimi met coming out of the principal office?
   A) Efua and her Mother
   B) Mr and Mrs Solade
   C) Caro and Nene Ekpo
   D) Teacher okoro and mama Silifat
   **Answer: A**
   *Explanation: While entering Mr Mallum’s office, Jimi and Seyi Lawal met two persons coming out of the principal’s office, they were Efua and her mother. The others in the options were not present at the time of the event

See page 9-10*

**10.** The most notable thing about snakes, according to the passage, is that they
   A) Exist in families
   B) Abound in Gombe and Plateau States
   C) Are versatile in reproduction
   D) Eat big but seldom
   **Answer: D**

**11.** <i>Mutual</i> love is what Kabi and Musa have in common, and nothing else.
   A)  insincere     
   B) unhappy
   C) one-sided    
   D) disrespectful. 
   **Answer: C**

**12.** Mr. Ojo has a <i>fickle</i> character.
   A) a genuine
   B)  a stable
   C) an imperfect
   D) an unpredictable
   **Answer: D**
   *Explanation: <i>fickle</i>; changing frequently, especially as regards one's loyalties or affections.*

**13.** Catholicism
   A) caTHOlicism 
   B) catholiCism
   C) CAtholicism 
   D) cathoLIcism 
   **Answer: D**

**14.** That little boy has become quite <i>chubby</i>
   A) thin    
   B)  intelligent   
   C) huge    
   D) tall
   **Answer: A**

**15.** The <u>coalescence</u> of the groups created additional problems?
   A)  proscription
   B) fighting
   C) disbandments
   D) union
   **Answer: D**

**16.** He is ....... Kaduna ......... an official assignment?
   A) in / on
   B) at / in
   C) at / for
   D)  for / in
   **Answer: A**

**17.** Our teacher described Agbo's story as a <i>phantom</i>
   A) scary  
   B) realistic 
   C) fanciful   
   D) interesting 
   **Answer: C**

**18.** The man was able to persuade his <u>willful and obstinate</u> daughter to follow the career he chose for her?
   A) intelligent but arrogant
   B) unyielding and obdurate
   C) secure and odious
   D) hardworking and intelligent
   **Answer: B**

**19.** The conference Centre caters for <u>transients</u> only?
   A) temporary guest
   B) professional
   C) permanent guests
   D) novices
   **Answer: A**

**20.** ...9.... in oilskin ran in the light drizzle
   A) workers
   B) engineers
   C) fitters
   D) repairers
   **Answer: B**
   *Explanation: The flight engineers are the members of an aircraft's crew responsible for monitoring and operating its complex aircraft systems.*

**21.** From the words lettered A to D, choose the word that rhymes with the given word.

Fret
   A) freight
   B) height
   C) threat
   D) thread
   **Answer: C**
   *Explanation: The answer is ‘C’ because only ‘threat’ rhymes with ‘fret’. The others do not rhyme.*

**22.** The officer was compelled to ------------------- the suspect’s car.
   A) seize
   B) cease
   C) sieze
   D) sease
   **Answer: A**
   *Explanation: The correct answer is ‘A’ which means to take possession of (by force, laws etc).While option ‘B’ means to stop doing something’*

**23.** His gift to the poor was always <u>infinitesimal</u>
   A) large
   B) small
   C) supportive
   D) shameful
   **Answer: A**
   *Explanation: Infinitesimal; extremely small.*

**24.** If James fails his examination, his teachers, his parents, his friends, or I ______ to be blame.
   A) are
   B) is
   C) am
   D) not
   **Answer: C**
   *Explanation: When there is a list of nouns or pronouns at the level of the subject, it is the nearest noun or pronoun to the position of the verb that will determine the choice of the verb.*

**25.** The police claim that a number of stolen cars…… recovered
   A) have been 
   B) has been  
   C) has being
   D)  have being 
   **Answer: B**

**26.** The pastor asked the women to _________ their hearts to God in prayers.
   A) Bare
   B) Bear
   C) Bar
   D) Barrr
   **Answer: A**
   *Explanation: To bare one’s mind means to reveal or uncover all that is in it.

  Note the spelling.*

**27.** Some men will continue to cause offences until they are given <u>a taste of their own medicine</u>
   A) placated
   B)  revenged on
   C) recompense for
   D) cured
   **Answer: C**
   *Explanation: You use the expression 'A Taste of Your Own Medicine' to indicate that someone is. receiving the same unpleasant experience they've been dishing out to others*

**28.** 
   A) Frequent (verb)
   B) mature 
   C) madam
   D) convict (verb)
   **Answer: C**

**29.** I am <i>loath</i> to do the assignment
   A) unwilling 
   B) waiting 
   C) dying 
   D) willing 
   **Answer: D**

**30.** Zinana's examination result was not unfavourable
   A)  Her examination did not meet expectation
   B) she was successful in her examination
   C) her result could not earn her admission
   D) she failed her examination
   **Answer: B**
   *Explanation: Her exam was good, it was favourable, it met expectations.*

**31.** In question number 14 above, choose the best option from the letters A-D that best completes the gab.
   A) editing
   B) posting
   C) listing
   D) auditing
   **Answer: A**

**32.** Choose the word that has a different stress pattern
   A) enlighten
   B) unwanted
   C) agitate
   D) Informal
   **Answer: C**
   *Explanation: The first syllable in 'agitate' is stressed, the other options are stressed differently*

**33.** The house and the senate will at noon next Wednesday, _________ to hear a special address by the president.
   A) Collude.
   B) Convene.
   C) Adjourn.
   D) Rise.
   **Answer: B**
   *Explanation: The house and the senate will at noon next Wednesday, Convene to hear a special address by the president.

Convene; come or bring together for a meeting or activity; assemble.*

**34.** Many people would always find reasons to ... the law
   A) arrogate 
   B) debase  
   C)  circumvent 
   D) circumspect
   **Answer: C**

**35.** The man puts his foot down whenever he is convince of his action
   A) He desires to assert his will in the situation
   B) He makes his mark wherever he goes
   C) His attitude demonstrates someone who likes  to oppress others around him
   D) He demonstrates firmness of character
   **Answer: D**

**36.** It can be deduced from the passage that political and social changes are
   A) repulsive
   B) Intertwined
   C) Antithetical
   D) Independent
   **Answer: B**
   *Explanation: Intertwined; connect or link (two or more things) closely.*

**37.** The boys knew that a storm was <i>imminent</i>
   A) Impending 
   B) encroaching 
   C) possible 
   D) threatening 
   **Answer: A**

**38.** Okonkwo manages his household <i>with a heavy hand.</i>
   A) like a powerful dictator
   B) using the cane on every occasion
   C) without tolerating weakness
   D) like a heavy weight champion.
   **Answer: C**

**39.** A wide range of options
   A) is 
   B) were   
   C) are
   D)  was
   **Answer: D**

**40.** I was often angry …… Oche since he differed…   me often
   A) with/to 
   B) about/with   
   C) against/from
   D) with/with
   **Answer: D**

**41.** Shakespearian ------------------- are generally the victims of circumstance.
   A) heros
   B) heroses
   C) hero
   D) heroes
   **Answer: D**
   *Explanation: The correct answer is ‘D’ heroes because it is the plural form of ‘hero’. The others are wrongly spelt.*

**42.** The workers suddenly became <u>restive</u>?
   A) fidgety
   B) disorderly
   C) submissive
   D) calm
   **Answer: D**

**43.** Lemoti ………..
   A) is gifted only not 
   B) is only not gifted  
   C) not only 
   D) is only gifted
   **Answer: B**

**44.** It is wise not to depend on <u>mundane</u> things.
   A) imported
   B) material
   C) attractive
   D) expensive
   **Answer: B**
   *Explanation: Both means things that are of this earthly world rather than a heavenly or spiritual one.*

**45.** The idea makes me <i>cringe</i>
   A) quiver
   B) tremble
   C) resolute
   D) writhe
   **Answer: C**
   *Explanation: <i>cringe</i>; bend one's head and body in fear or apprehension or in a servile manner.
synonyms; shake, tremble, quiver, quail, quake
resolute; admirably purposeful, determined, and unwavering.*

**46.** Prison
   A) rising
   B) risen
   C) potion
   D) motion
   **Answer: B**
   *Explanation: Both words have the same sound at the end of their pronunciation.*

**47.** I find the way she approaches her customers quite <i>repugnant</i>
   A) unpleasant   
   B) attractive. 
   C) ungodly    
   D) encouraging
   **Answer: C**

**48.** These policies have been [espoused] by the ruling party
   A) condemned
   B) rejected
   C) supported
   D) outlined
   **Answer: C**
   *Explanation: To espouse is to adopt or support a belief or strategy.*

**49.** In question number 18 above, choose the best option from letters A-D that best completes the gap.
   A) studies
   B) procedures
   C) objects
   D) conditions
   **Answer: D**

**50.** <u>ch</u>ateau
   A) chart
   B) church
   C) champagne
   D) chemical
   **Answer: C**
   *Explanation: chateau; /ˈʃatəʊ/

champagne; /ʃamˈpeɪn/*

**51.** Of course we all saw the culprit ....... and hit the man on the head?
   A) approached
   B) approching
   C) approach
   D) approches
   **Answer: A**

**52.** What is the full meaning of the acronym EMAL
   A) Examination Malpractice
   B) Examination misconduct
   C) Examination management
   D) Examination Manners
   **Answer: A**

**53.** One of these summarizes the approaches to definition discussed in the passage
   A)  mentioning the class of a word or object with its specific property
   B) indicating the class of a word and mentioning its general property with examples
   C) specifying clearly what distinguishes a particular word or object from its traditional group
   D)  giving general and specific features followed by example of what the object or word includes
   **Answer: D**

**54.** Our culture does not allow one to ........ when an elderly person is speaking?
   A) cut of
   B) cut off
   C) cut in
   D)  cut on
   **Answer: C**

**55.** In question number 13 above choose the best option from letters A- E that best complete the gap
   A) servant
   B) maid
   C) workers
   D) errand
   E) worker
   **Answer: E**
   *Explanation: The term 'workers' or 'worker bees' is correct and can be applied but according to the context, 'worker' is grammatically appropriate.*

**56.** 77. The recommended novel has a <i>convoluted</i> theme
   A)  a simple 
   B) an attractive 
   C) a disgusting 
   D) a complicated 
   **Answer: D**

**57.** capitalism
   A) capiTAIism   
   B) capitaLIsm
   C) caPItalism 
   D) CApitalism.
   **Answer: D**

**58.** Choose the most appropriate answer in the numbered 15
   A) commotion
   B) detonation
   C) distortion
   D) reduction
   **Answer: B**
   *Explanation: Detonation; a loud explosion.*

**59.** The government which .....recruiting ....... workers suddenly stopped doing so?
   A) are / its
   B) was / its
   C)  is / their
   D) were / their
   **Answer: B**

**60.** One of the students bought a <u>plagiarised</u> copy of the book.
   A) An annotated.
   B) A used.
   C) An original.
   D) A revised.
   **Answer: C**
   *Explanation: plagiarize; take (the work or an idea of someone else) and pass it off as one's own.*

